docker/README.md, before:

# IdentityMappingService docker image

Docker image of the [Open PHACTS](http://www.openphacts.org/) service
[queryExpander](https://github.com/openphacts/queryExpander), which includes
the
[IdentityMappingService](https://github.com/openphacts/IdentityMappingService)
(IMS) and the [VoID Validator](https://github.com/openphacts/Validator).

This document will call this service "IMS" even though it includes all of the above.

## Usage

To run the IMS, and expose it on port `8081`, use:

    docker run --name ims --link mysql-for-ims:mysql -p 8081:8080 -d openphacts/identitymappingservice

To expose the AJP port `8009`, which is useful for 
[proxying from the Apache HTTP server](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_proxy_ajp.html), add:

    -p 8009:8009 

You can check the Tomcat logs using:

    docker logs ims

The server is initialized when the logs say something along the line of:

    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.590 INFO [localhost-startStop-1] org.apache.catalina.startup.HostConfig.deployWAR Deployment of web application archive /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/ROOT.war has finished in 29,575 ms
    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.611 INFO [main] org.apache.coyote.AbstractProtocol.start Starting ProtocolHandler ["http-nio-8080"]
    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.645 INFO [main] org.apache.coyote.AbstractProtocol.start Starting ProtocolHandler ["ajp-nio-8009"]
    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.649 INFO [main] org.apache.catalina.startup.Catalina.start Server startup in 29838 ms

At this point you can access the IMS service at [http://localhost:8081/QueryExpander/](http://localhost:8081/QueryExpander/) (or equivalent host/port).

## Data loading

This docker image assumes there will be a [mySQL
server](https://www.mysql.com/) on its virtual hostname `mysql`, using the
database `ims` with username `ims` and password `ims`.
(You can customize these by modifying [local.properties](local.properties)
and rebuilding this image.)

The simplest way to achieve this is to `--link` to a [mysql docker image](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/mysql/),
which we will call `mysql-for-ims` and ask it to create the `ims` database for us. (You can replace `$(pwgen)` with 
your desired mySQL root password, e.g. `-e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=fish`).

    docker run --name mysql-for-ims -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(pwgen) \
      -e MYSQL_DATABASE=ims -e MYSQL_USER=ims -e MYSQL_PASSWORD=ims -d mysql

Next you need to load it either with the latest [Open PHACTS IMS mysql
dump](http://data.openphacts.org/1.5/ims/)
or load it manually from configured linksets. Below we'll use the mySQL dump as it 
requires the least setup (although it is less flexible.)

    mkdir /tmp/$$ ; cd /tmp/$$
    wget http://data.openphacts.org/dev/ims/ims-1.5-20150420.sql.gz.sha1
    wget http://data.openphacts.org/dev/ims/ims-1.5-20150420.sql.gz
    sha1sum -c ims*.sha1
    (echo 'use ims;'; gunzip -c ims-*.gz) | docker run -i --link mysql-for-ims:mysql --rm \
      mysql sh -c 'exec mysql -h"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR" -P"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_PORT" -uroot -p"$MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD"'
      
Loading should take from 30 minutes to an hours, depending on the disk. No
output will be produced while loading.

### Custom data loading

To load your own linksets instead (or in addition to) the 
official Open PHACTS linksets, you can use the `loader` command line
and provide a `load.xml` file, either on the web (`http://..`) or on a local
file system as seen from the Docker container (`file:///`).

The example below assumes you have `load.xml` in the directory `/home/johndoe/data5`, 
which we'll expose to /staging inside the container:

    docker run --link mysql-for-ims:mysql -v /home/johndoe/data5:/staging openphacts/identitymappingservice loader file:///staging/load.xml

As an example of `load.xml`, see http://data.openphacts.org/1.5/ims/linksets/load.xml

Note that if you don't include the `<clearAll />` operation, the content of the
database is preserved, this can be used for incremental loading from multiple
load files.

Commit message:

README for docker image, about loading / sql dump

docker/README.md, after:

# IdentityMappingService docker image

Docker image of the [Open PHACTS](http://www.openphacts.org/) service
[queryExpander](https://github.com/openphacts/queryExpander), which includes
the
[IdentityMappingService](https://github.com/openphacts/IdentityMappingService)
(IMS) and the [VoID Validator](https://github.com/openphacts/Validator).

This document will call this service "IMS" even though it includes all of the above.

## Usage

To run the IMS, and expose it on port `8081`, use:

    docker run --name ims --link mysql-for-ims:mysql -p 8081:8080 -d openphacts/identitymappingservice

To expose the AJP port `8009`, which is useful for 
[proxying from the Apache HTTP server](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_proxy_ajp.html), add:

    -p 8009:8009 

You can check the Tomcat logs using:

    docker logs ims

The server is initialized when the logs say something along the line of:

    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.590 INFO [localhost-startStop-1] org.apache.catalina.startup.HostConfig.deployWAR Deployment of web application archive /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/ROOT.war has finished in 29,575 ms
    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.611 INFO [main] org.apache.coyote.AbstractProtocol.start Starting ProtocolHandler ["http-nio-8080"]
    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.645 INFO [main] org.apache.coyote.AbstractProtocol.start Starting ProtocolHandler ["ajp-nio-8009"]
    20-Apr-2015 10:41:44.649 INFO [main] org.apache.catalina.startup.Catalina.start Server startup in 29838 ms

At this point you can access the IMS service at [http://localhost:8081/QueryExpander/](http://localhost:8081/QueryExpander/) (or equivalent host/port).

## Data loading

This docker image assumes there will be a [mySQL
server](https://www.mysql.com/) on its virtual hostname `mysql`, using the
database `ims` with username `ims` and password `ims`.
(You can customize these by modifying [local.properties](local.properties)
and rebuilding this image.)

The simplest way to achieve this is to `--link` to a [mysql docker image](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/mysql/),
which we will call `mysql-for-ims` and ask it to create the `ims` database for us. (You can replace `$(pwgen)` with 
your desired mySQL root password, e.g. `-e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=fish`).

    docker run --name mysql-for-ims -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=$(pwgen) \
      -e MYSQL_DATABASE=ims -e MYSQL_USER=ims -e MYSQL_PASSWORD=ims -d mysql

Next you need to load it either with the latest [Open PHACTS IMS mysql
dump](http://data.openphacts.org/1.5/ims/)
or load it manually from configured linksets. Below we'll use the mySQL dump as it 
requires the least setup (although it is less flexible.)

    mkdir /tmp/$$ ; cd /tmp/$$
    wget http://data.openphacts.org/dev/ims/ims-1.5-20150420.sql.gz.sha1
    wget http://data.openphacts.org/dev/ims/ims-1.5-20150420.sql.gz
    sha1sum -c ims*.sha1
    (echo 'use ims;'; gunzip -c ims-*.gz) | docker run -i --link mysql-for-ims:mysql --rm \
      mysql sh -c 'exec mysql -h"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR" -P"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_PORT" -uroot -p"$MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD"'
      
Loading should take from 30 minutes to an hours, depending on the disk. No
output will be produced while loading.

### Custom data loading

To load your own linksets instead (or in addition to) the 
official Open PHACTS linksets, you can use the `loader` command line
and provide a `load.xml` file, either on the web (`http://..`) or on a local
file system as seen from the Docker container (`file:///`).

The example below assumes you have `load.xml` in the directory `/home/johndoe/data5`, 
which we'll expose to /staging inside the container:

    docker run --link mysql-for-ims:mysql -v /home/johndoe/data5:/staging openphacts/identitymappingservice loader file:///staging/load.xml

During loading, log output should be produced for each linkset.    

As an example of `load.xml`, see
[http://data.openphacts.org/1.5/ims/linksets/load.xml](http://data.openphacts.org/1.5/ims/linksets/load.xml).
Remote URLs can alternatively be loaded directly (and thus don't need a
`/staging` volume):

    docker run --link mysql-for-ims:mysql openphacts/identitymappingservice loader http://data.openphacts.org/1.5/ims/linksets/load.xml

Note that loading of the 1.5 load.xml takes about 3 hours. 

Note that if you don't include the `<clearAll />` operation, the content of the
database is preserved, this can be used for incremental loading from multiple
load files.

#### Producing new SQL dump

After *custom data loading* (see above) you might want to produce a new mySQL
dump for faster loading/distribution. This is how the official IMS dump is 
produced:

    docker run -it --link mysql-for-ims:mysql --rm  mysql sh -c 'exec mysqldump ims --skip-add-locks --no-autocommit \
      -h"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_ADDR" -P"$MYSQL_PORT_3306_TCP_PORT" -uroot \
      -p"$MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD"' | gzip > ims-1.5-2015-05-12.sql.gz
    sha1sum ims-1.5-2015-05-12.sql.gz > ims-1.5-2015-05-12.sql.gz.gz
